come down and sit in the dust Oh virgin
daughter of Babylon sit on the ground
without a throne o daughter of the
Chaldeans for you shall no more be
called tender and delicate take the
millstones and grind meal remove your
veil take off the skirt uncover the
thigh pass through the rivers your
nakedness shall be uncovered yes your
shame will be seen I will take vengeance
and I will not arbitrate with a man as
for our Redeemer the Lord of Hosts is
his name the Holy One of Israel sit in
silence and go into darkness o daughter
of the Chaldeans for you shall no longer
be called the lady of kingdoms I was
angry with my people
I have profaned my inheritance and given
them into your hand you showed them no
mercy on the elderly you laid your yoke
very heavily and you said I shall be a
lady forever so that you did not take
these things to heart no remember the
latter end of them therefore hear this
now you who are given two pleasures who
dwell securely who say in your heart I
am and there is no one else besides me I
shall not sit as a widow nor shall I
know the loss of children but these two
things shall come to you in a moment in
one day the loss of children and
widowhood they shall come upon you in
their fullness because of the multitude
of your sorcerers
for the great abundance of your
enchantments for you have trusted in
your wickedness you have said no one
sees me your wisdom and your knowledge
have warped you and you have said in
your heart I am and there is no one else
besides me therefore evil shall come
upon you you shall not know from where
it arises and trouble shall fall upon
you you will not be able to put it off
and desolation shall come upon you
suddenly which you shall not know stand
now with your enchantments and the
multitude of your sorceries in which you
have laboured from your youth perhaps
you will be able to profit perhaps you
will prevail you are we read in the
multitude of your counsels let now the
astrologers the stargazers and the
monthly prognosticators stand up and
save you from what shall come upon you
behold they shall be as stubble the fire
shall burn them they shall not deliver
themselves from the power of the flame
it shall not be a cold to be warmed by
nor a fire to sit before the shall they
be to you with whom you have labored
your merchants from your youth they
shall wander each one to his quarter no
one shall save you
you